readme.md, before:

[![SFML logo](https://www.sfml-dev.org/images/logo.png)](https://www.sfml-dev.org)

# SFML — Simple and Fast Multimedia Library

SFML is a simple, fast, cross-platform and object-oriented multimedia API. It provides access to windowing, graphics, audio and network. It is written in C++, and has bindings for various languages such as C, .Net, Ruby, Python.

## Authors

  - Laurent Gomila — main developer (laurent@sfml-dev.org)
  - Marco Antognini — OS X developer (hiura@sfml-dev.org)
  - Jonathan De Wachter — Android developer (dewachter.jonathan@gmail.com)
  - Jan Haller (bromeon@sfml-dev.org)
  - Stefan Schindler (tank@sfml-dev.org)
  - Lukas Dürrenberger (eXpl0it3r@sfml-dev.org)
  - binary1248 (binary1248@hotmail.com)
  - Artur Moreira (artturmoreira@gmail.com)
  - Mario Liebisch (mario@sfml-dev.org)
  - And many other members of the SFML community

## Download

You can get the latest official release on [SFML's website](https://www.sfml-dev.org/download.php). You can also get the current development version from the [Git repository](https://github.com/SFML/SFML).

## Install

Follow the instructions of the [tutorials](https://www.sfml-dev.org/tutorials/), there is one for each platform/compiler that SFML supports.

## Learn

There are several places to learn SFML:

  * The [official tutorials](https://www.sfml-dev.org/tutorials/)
  * The [online API documentation](https://www.sfml-dev.org/documentation/)
  * The [community wiki](https://github.com/SFML/SFML/wiki/)
  * The [community forum](https://en.sfml-dev.org/forums/) ([French](https://fr.sfml-dev.org/forums/))

## Contribute

SFML is an open-source project, and it needs your help to go on growing and improving. If you want to get involved and suggest some additional features, file a bug report or submit a patch, please have a look at the [contribution guidelines](https://www.sfml-dev.org/contribute.php).

## Fork Notes:

Exposes `sf::priv::WindowImpl` so that one could use a separate library for window/events (SDL2 or GLFW). Keep in mind, this also disables SFML events entirely, so don't attempt to use them. Build using cmake with `-DSFML_CUSTOM_WINDOW`, write a class that implements `sf::priv::WindowImpl`, and create the window with something like:

```cpp
// GameWindow extends sf::RenderWindow
void GameWindow::createWindowImpl(const bool inFullscreen, const sf::Uint32 inStyle)
{
    if (m_windowImpl != nullptr)
        return;

    sf::VideoMode mode;
    mode.width = m_windowResolution.x;
    mode.height = m_windowResolution.y;

    m_windowImpl = new SDLWindowImpl(mode, m_title, inStyle, m_contextSettings);
	
    // Use SDL_WINDOW_OPENGL flag w/ SDL_GL_SetAttribute, 
    // but do not create a SDL_Renderer (done by SFML)

    // m_windowImpl is injected here, so it will get deleted by SFML. Keeping a 
    // weak pointer is useful for calling implementation-specific things that 
    // aren't required by sf::priv::WindowImpl, like "setFullscreen". For example, 
    // GameWindow shouldn't make any calls directly to SDL2
    this->create(m_windowImpl, inFullscreen, mode, m_contextSettings);

    // This just calls SDL_GL_GetAttribute() to make sure the context is what 
    // is expected, but granted, you could do this however you like
    m_windowImpl->checkContext(); 
}
```
For SDL2, also make sure the window uses OpenGL exclusively, and everything initializes & destructs correctly. Write out your event handling somewhere (especially for SDL_WINDOWEVENT_CLOSE), otherwise you won't be able to do much. Take advantage of SDL_GameController and SDL_Haptic of course! That and dual-monitor support / more robust window handling are the primary reasons for doing something like this.

The setup is similar for GLFW, but you'll need to create the glfw callbacks that statically call your own event dispatcher or something (consider entt::dispatcher).

### Other:
- Attempts to add some modern C++ to SFML. Trivial template classes like `sf::Rect`, `sf::Color`, & `sf::Vector` are constexpr. `sf::Time` is constexpr as well and uses chrono
- It's C++20 (tested on GCC 10.2) so that `sf::Transform` and a lot of `sf::View` could also be constexpr, but that was probably overkill, and this may get scaled back to C++17 for compatibility...

Commit message:

Added sf::Colors note to fork notes

readme.md, after:

[![SFML logo](https://www.sfml-dev.org/images/logo.png)](https://www.sfml-dev.org)

# SFML — Simple and Fast Multimedia Library

SFML is a simple, fast, cross-platform and object-oriented multimedia API. It provides access to windowing, graphics, audio and network. It is written in C++, and has bindings for various languages such as C, .Net, Ruby, Python.

## Authors

  - Laurent Gomila — main developer (laurent@sfml-dev.org)
  - Marco Antognini — OS X developer (hiura@sfml-dev.org)
  - Jonathan De Wachter — Android developer (dewachter.jonathan@gmail.com)
  - Jan Haller (bromeon@sfml-dev.org)
  - Stefan Schindler (tank@sfml-dev.org)
  - Lukas Dürrenberger (eXpl0it3r@sfml-dev.org)
  - binary1248 (binary1248@hotmail.com)
  - Artur Moreira (artturmoreira@gmail.com)
  - Mario Liebisch (mario@sfml-dev.org)
  - And many other members of the SFML community

## Download

You can get the latest official release on [SFML's website](https://www.sfml-dev.org/download.php). You can also get the current development version from the [Git repository](https://github.com/SFML/SFML).

## Install

Follow the instructions of the [tutorials](https://www.sfml-dev.org/tutorials/), there is one for each platform/compiler that SFML supports.

## Learn

There are several places to learn SFML:

  * The [official tutorials](https://www.sfml-dev.org/tutorials/)
  * The [online API documentation](https://www.sfml-dev.org/documentation/)
  * The [community wiki](https://github.com/SFML/SFML/wiki/)
  * The [community forum](https://en.sfml-dev.org/forums/) ([French](https://fr.sfml-dev.org/forums/))

## Contribute

SFML is an open-source project, and it needs your help to go on growing and improving. If you want to get involved and suggest some additional features, file a bug report or submit a patch, please have a look at the [contribution guidelines](https://www.sfml-dev.org/contribute.php).

## Fork Notes:

Exposes `sf::priv::WindowImpl` so that one could use a separate library for window/events (SDL2 or GLFW). Keep in mind, this also disables SFML events entirely, so don't attempt to use them. Build using cmake with `-DSFML_CUSTOM_WINDOW`, write a class that implements `sf::priv::WindowImpl`, and create the window with something like:

```cpp
// GameWindow extends sf::RenderWindow
void GameWindow::createWindowImpl(const bool inFullscreen, const sf::Uint32 inStyle)
{
    if (m_windowImpl != nullptr)
        return;

    sf::VideoMode mode;
    mode.width = m_windowResolution.x;
    mode.height = m_windowResolution.y;

    m_windowImpl = new SDLWindowImpl(mode, m_title, inStyle, m_contextSettings);
	
    // Use SDL_WINDOW_OPENGL flag w/ SDL_GL_SetAttribute, 
    // but do not create a SDL_Renderer (done by SFML)

    // m_windowImpl is injected here, so it will get deleted by SFML. Keeping a 
    // weak pointer is useful for calling implementation-specific things that 
    // aren't required by sf::priv::WindowImpl, like "setFullscreen". For example, 
    // GameWindow shouldn't make any calls directly to SDL2
    this->create(m_windowImpl, inFullscreen, mode, m_contextSettings);

    // This just calls SDL_GL_GetAttribute() to make sure the context is what 
    // is expected, but granted, you could do this however you like
    m_windowImpl->checkContext(); 
}
```
For SDL2, also make sure the window uses OpenGL exclusively, and everything initializes & destructs correctly. Write out your event handling somewhere (especially for SDL_WINDOWEVENT_CLOSE), otherwise you won't be able to do much. Take advantage of SDL_GameController and SDL_Haptic of course! That and dual-monitor support / more robust window handling are the primary reasons for doing something like this.

The setup is similar for GLFW, but you'll need to create the glfw callbacks that statically call your own event dispatcher or something (consider entt::dispatcher).

### Other:
- It's C++20 (tested on GCC 10.2) so that `sf::Transform` and a lot of `sf::View` could also be constexpr, but that was probably overkill, and this may get scaled back to C++17 for compatibility...
- Attempts to add some modern C++ to SFML. Trivial template classes like `sf::Rect`, `sf::Color`, & `sf::Vector` are constexpr. `sf::Time` is constexpr as well and uses chrono
- Moved static colors (sf::Color::Black, sf::Color::Blue, etc) to `sf::Colors` namespace to get rid of extra noise while debugging color changes
